---
title: Professional Issues - Blog entry 2
subtitle: How ethical issues in IT will affect my future practice in relation to the BCS Code of Conduct
layout: post
---

The Chartered Institute for IT&rsquo;s (2013) Code of Conduct item 2.b states you should &ldquo;not claim any level of competence that you do not possess&rdquo;. Before I started University I worked as a freelance web developer, this meant I regularly had to provide quotes and estimates to clients. <!-- more --> In 2010 I was working on a website that required components much more complex than the client and I had originally thought or had quoted for, and the development work for these components wasn&rsquo;t something I felt I could achieve alone. I had to go back to the client and explain, and apologise, that the level of complexity of the task had outstretched me and that I could not finish the remainder of the project alone. What I have taken away from The Chartered Institutes&rsquo; Code of Conduct is that before I provide a quote and agree to carry out any work in the future, I should fully assess wether or not I will be able to complete all the work myself.

This leads to The Chartered Institute for IT&rsquo;s (2013) Code of Conduct item 2.c which says &ldquo;develop your professional knowledge, skills and competence&rdquo;. Before I returned to study this year I took some more freelance web design work and was surprised when a similar problem to the one I had in 2010 faced me. I quickly and aptly solved the problem alone. I had not considered how much I had improved my skills, but now I can see that I am progressing well. In order to stay inline with the Code of Conduct when I leave University I will carry on reading industry news, research papers, and staying up to date with the developments in the languages, tools, and systems that I use and develop for.

---

### References

BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT (2013) BCS Code of Conduct Available at: <a href="http://www.bcs.org/category/6030">http://www.bcs.org/category/6030</a>. [Accessed 23 October 2013]</p>
